I'm a second year grad student in computer science, working with Adam Chlipala at MIT on verified program synthesis (making verified compilers smart enough to perform algorithm-level optimizations on code based on mathematical descriptions), and separately on formalizing category theory in the proof assistant Coq on top of homotopy type theory.  As an undergrad, also at MIT, I majored in mathematics and computer science, with a humanities concentration in philosophy.  The four summers prior to my undergraduate career, I attended Mathcamp.  Those summers were the best twenty weeks of my life up to that point, and probably still rate as the best summers I've ever had.  I loved the math, the people, and the community.  I want to be a part of that environment again, and contribute more to it.

The role of being a mentor appeals to me because I enjoy teaching and helping people understand things better.  My friends tell me that I'm very good at explaining concepts.  I love learning, and enjoy learning from my students.  As an undergrad, I was a teaching assistant for introductory physics for three years in MIT's Experimental Study Group (ESG); I held office hours to help students better understand concepts and solve pset problems, and I once gave a lecture on the principle of least action.  In feedback, students gave me high ratings, praising my dedication, patience, and understanding, both of them and the mathematics and physics.  They liked that I didn't just give them the answers, and instead helped them discover things for themselves.

When I present a topic, and a student doesn't understand it, I then need to figure out why.  I try to understand how the student is approaching the topic, and what the student's current conception is.  The process of bridging the gap between my understanding and the student's, and the process of helping the student to pinpoint the gap and traverse it, often leaves me with a better understanding of the material.  For this reason, among others, I've been teaching classes every year for MIT's Educational Studies Program (ESP) for Splash, Spark, and HSSP; the topics have included category theory, linear logic, homotopy type theory, sizes of infinity, ordinal arithmetic, philosophy, quantum mechanics, LaTeX, computer-assisted theorem proving, and linear algebra.

Finally, math is beautiful.  I want to share that beauty with others, and appreciate it with them.  Most recently, I've been involved in the new and exciting field of homotopy type theory, which promises to provide an alternative to set theory for founding formal mathematics in a way which allows informal math to be much closer to formal mathematics.  Although it was founded around 2006-2009, homotopy type theory only really got going at the IAS 2012-2013, and I want to share the excitement of being in a new field of math with others.

In summary, I believe that I can share interesting, beautiful, and exciting math and computer science with campers, and that I have the skills and motivation to be an engaging and compassionate mentor.